apps/v1/content/docs/faq.mdx, before:

---
title: Frequently Asked Questions
description: Common questions about OpenDataLoader PDF for RAG, LLM, and document processing
---

## General

### What is OpenDataLoader PDF?

OpenDataLoader PDF is an open-source tool that converts PDF documents into structured formats (JSON, Markdown, HTML) optimized for AI applications like RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation), LLM processing, and vector search. It runs entirely on your local machine without requiring GPU or cloud services.

### What is the best PDF parser for RAG?

For RAG pipelines, you need a PDF parser that:
- Preserves correct **reading order** (especially for multi-column layouts)
- Provides **bounding boxes** for citations
- Outputs **structured data** (headings, paragraphs, tables)
- Filters **noise** (headers, footers, hidden text)

OpenDataLoader PDF is designed specifically for these requirements. It uses the XY-Cut++ algorithm for reading order, provides coordinates for every element, and includes built-in AI safety filters.

### How does OpenDataLoader compare to other PDF parsers?

OpenDataLoader PDF is the only open-source PDF parser that combines:
- **Rule-based extraction** (no GPU needed)
- **Bounding boxes** for every element
- **XY-Cut++ reading order** algorithm
- **Built-in AI safety** filters
- **Native Tagged PDF** support

Most alternatives require GPU, lack coordinates, or ignore PDF structure tags.

### What makes OpenDataLoader unique?

OpenDataLoader takes a different approach from many PDF parsers:

- **Rule-based extraction** — Deterministic output without GPU requirements
- **Bounding boxes for all elements** — Essential for citation systems
- **XY-Cut++ reading order** — Handles multi-column layouts correctly
- **Built-in AI safety filters** — Protects against prompt injection
- **Native Tagged PDF support** — Leverages accessibility metadata

This means: consistent output (same input = same output), no GPU required, faster processing, and no model hallucinations.

## Installation & Setup

### What are the system requirements?

- **Java 11 or higher** (must be installed and in PATH)
- **Python 3.9+** (for Python package)
- **Node.js 18+** (for Node.js package)
- No GPU required
- Works on Linux, macOS, and Windows

### Why does OpenDataLoader require Java?

The core PDF parsing engine is written in Java for performance and reliability. The Python and Node.js packages automatically manage the Java runtime — you just need Java installed on your system.

### How do I install OpenDataLoader PDF?

**Python:**
```bash
pip install opendataloader-pdf
```

**Node.js:**
```bash
npm install @opendataloader/pdf
```

**Docker:**
```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/opendataloader-project/opendataloader-pdf-cli
```

## Usage

### How do I extract tables from PDF for LLM?

OpenDataLoader detects tables using both border analysis and text clustering, preserving row/column structure in the output:

```python
import opendataloader_pdf

opendataloader_pdf.convert(
    input_path="document.pdf",
    output_dir="output/",
    format="json"  # JSON preserves table structure
)
```

Tables are exported as structured data with rows, columns, and cell content preserved.

### How do I handle multi-column PDFs?

Enable the XY-Cut++ reading order algorithm:

```python
opendataloader_pdf.convert(
    input_path="two-column-paper.pdf",
    output_dir="output/",
    reading_order="xycut"  # Preserves correct reading order
)
```

This ensures text is extracted in the order humans would read it, not left-to-right across columns.

### How do I get bounding boxes for citations?

Use JSON output format. Every element includes a `bounding box` field:

```python
opendataloader_pdf.convert(
    input_path="document.pdf",
    output_dir="output/",
    format="json"
)
```

Output:
```json
{
  "type": "paragraph",
  "page number": 1,
  "bounding box": [72.0, 650.5, 540.0, 700.2],
  "content": "This is the paragraph text..."
}
```

Coordinates are `[left, bottom, right, top]` in PDF points (72 points = 1 inch).

### What output formats are available?

| Format | Use Case |
|--------|----------|
| `json` | Structured data with bounding boxes, semantic types |
| `markdown` | Clean text for LLM context, RAG chunks |
| `html` | Web display with styling |
| `pdf` | Annotated PDF showing detected structures |
| `text` | Plain text extraction |

You can combine formats: `format="json,markdown"`

### Does OpenDataLoader work with LangChain?

Yes! OpenDataLoader PDF has an official LangChain integration:

```bash
pip install -U langchain-opendataloader-pdf
```

```python
from langchain_opendataloader_pdf import OpenDataLoaderPDFLoader

loader = OpenDataLoaderPDFLoader(
    file_path=["document.pdf"],
    format="text"
)
documents = loader.load()
```

See the [LangChain documentation](https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/document_loaders/opendataloader_pdf/) for more details.

## Privacy & Security

### Can I use this without sending data to the cloud?

Yes. OpenDataLoader PDF runs **100% locally** on your machine. No API calls, no data transmission — your documents never leave your environment. This makes it ideal for:
- Legal documents
- Medical records
- Financial reports
- Any sensitive data

### What is AI Safety filtering?

PDFs can contain hidden text designed for prompt injection attacks — invisible instructions that manipulate LLMs. OpenDataLoader automatically filters:
- Hidden text (transparent, zero-size fonts)
- Off-page content
- Suspicious invisible layers

This is **enabled by default**. Learn more in our [AI Safety documentation](/docs/ai-safety).

### Is my data safe?

Yes. OpenDataLoader:
- Runs entirely on your machine
- Makes no network requests
- Stores no data externally
- Is open-source (you can audit the code)

## Performance

### How fast is OpenDataLoader?

OpenDataLoader processes **100+ pages per second** on typical hardware (CPU only, no GPU). See our [benchmark results](/docs/benchmark) for details. Exact speed depends on:
- Document complexity
- Number of tables/images
- Output formats selected

### Can I process multiple PDFs at once?

Yes. Point to a folder instead of a single file:

```python
opendataloader_pdf.convert(
    input_path="documents/",  # Folder containing PDFs
    output_dir="output/",
    format="json,markdown"
)
```

### Does it work with scanned PDFs?

OCR support for scanned PDFs is **coming soon** (scheduled for December 2025). Currently, OpenDataLoader works best with digital PDFs that have embedded text.

## Tagged PDF

### What is Tagged PDF?

Tagged PDF is a document structure that includes semantic information (headings, paragraphs, lists, tables). When a PDF has proper tags, OpenDataLoader can extract the **exact layout** the author intended — no guessing required.

### Why does Tagged PDF matter?

The [European Accessibility Act (EAA)](https://commission.europa.eu/strategy-and-policy/policies/justice-and-fundamental-rights/disability/union-equality-strategy-rights-persons-disabilities-2021-2030/european-accessibility-act_en) took effect on June 28, 2025, requiring accessible digital documents across the EU. This means more PDFs are now properly tagged.

### How do I use Tagged PDF features?

```python
opendataloader_pdf.convert(
    input_path="accessible-document.pdf",
    output_dir="output/",
    use_struct_tree=True  # Use native PDF structure tags
)
```

Most PDF parsers ignore structure tags entirely. OpenDataLoader is one of the few that fully supports them.

## Troubleshooting

### Text from different columns is mixed together

Enable reading order:
```python
reading_order="xycut"
```

### Tables are not detected correctly

Try both detection methods by default. For complex tables, Table AI support is coming soon.

### Headers and footers appear in my output

These should be filtered by default. If they're appearing, they may be part of the main content flow rather than repeated elements.

### Java is not found

Ensure Java 11+ is installed and in your PATH:
```bash
java -version
```

If not installed, download from [Adoptium](https://adoptium.net/) or use your package manager.

## Contributing

### How can I contribute?

We welcome contributions! See our [Contributing Guide](/docs/contributing) for details on:
- Reporting bugs
- Suggesting features
- Submitting pull requests

### Where can I get help?

- [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/opendataloader-project/opendataloader-pdf/discussions) — Q&A and general conversations
- [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/opendataloader-project/opendataloader-pdf/issues) — Bug reports and feature requests

Commit message:

Update from https://github.com/opendataloader-project/opendataloader-pdf/commit/c32f6a1fefbf45d6c3d898e5bdefb7738802d495

apps/v1/content/docs/faq.mdx, after:

---
title: Frequently Asked Questions
description: Common questions about OpenDataLoader PDF for RAG, LLM, and document processing
---

## General

### What is OpenDataLoader PDF?

OpenDataLoader PDF is an open-source tool that converts PDF documents into structured formats (JSON, Markdown, HTML) optimized for AI applications like RAG (Retrieval-Augmented Generation), LLM processing, and vector search. It runs entirely on your local machine without requiring GPU or cloud services.

### What is the best PDF parser for RAG?

For RAG pipelines, you need a PDF parser that:
- Preserves correct **reading order** (especially for multi-column layouts)
- Provides **bounding boxes** for citations
- Outputs **structured data** (headings, paragraphs, tables)
- Filters **noise** (headers, footers, hidden text)

OpenDataLoader PDF is designed specifically for these requirements. It uses the XY-Cut++ algorithm for reading order, provides coordinates for every element, and includes built-in AI safety filters.

### How does OpenDataLoader compare to other PDF parsers?

OpenDataLoader PDF is the only open-source PDF parser that combines:
- **Rule-based extraction** (no GPU needed)
- **Bounding boxes** for every element
- **XY-Cut++ reading order** algorithm
- **Built-in AI safety** filters
- **Native Tagged PDF** support

Most alternatives require GPU, lack coordinates, or ignore PDF structure tags.

### What makes OpenDataLoader unique?

OpenDataLoader takes a different approach from many PDF parsers:

- **Rule-based extraction** — Deterministic output without GPU requirements
- **Bounding boxes for all elements** — Essential for citation systems
- **XY-Cut++ reading order** — Handles multi-column layouts correctly
- **Built-in AI safety filters** — Protects against prompt injection
- **Native Tagged PDF support** — Leverages accessibility metadata

This means: consistent output (same input = same output), no GPU required, faster processing, and no model hallucinations.

## Installation & Setup

### What are the system requirements?

- **Java 11 or higher** (must be installed and in PATH)
- **Python 3.9+** (for Python package)
- **Node.js 18+** (for Node.js package)
- No GPU required
- Works on Linux, macOS, and Windows

### Why does OpenDataLoader require Java?

The core PDF parsing engine is written in Java for performance and reliability. The Python and Node.js packages automatically manage the Java runtime — you just need Java installed on your system.

### How do I install OpenDataLoader PDF?

**Python:**
```bash
pip install opendataloader-pdf
```

**Node.js:**
```bash
npm install @opendataloader/pdf
```

**Docker:**
```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/opendataloader-project/opendataloader-pdf-cli
```

## Usage

### How do I extract tables from PDF for LLM?

OpenDataLoader detects tables using both border analysis and text clustering, preserving row/column structure in the output:

```python
import opendataloader_pdf

opendataloader_pdf.convert(
    input_path="document.pdf",
    output_dir="output/",
    format="json"  # JSON preserves table structure
)
```

Tables are exported as structured data with rows, columns, and cell content preserved.

### How do I handle multi-column PDFs?

Enable the XY-Cut++ reading order algorithm:

```python
opendataloader_pdf.convert(
    input_path="two-column-paper.pdf",
    output_dir="output/",
    reading_order="xycut"  # Preserves correct reading order
)
```

This ensures text is extracted in the order humans would read it, not left-to-right across columns.

### How do I get bounding boxes for citations?

Use JSON output format. Every element includes a `bounding box` field:

```python
opendataloader_pdf.convert(
    input_path="document.pdf",
    output_dir="output/",
    format="json"
)
```

Output:
```json
{
  "type": "paragraph",
  "page number": 1,
  "bounding box": [72.0, 650.5, 540.0, 700.2],
  "content": "This is the paragraph text..."
}
```

Coordinates are `[left, bottom, right, top]` in PDF points (72 points = 1 inch).

### What output formats are available?

| Format | Use Case |
|--------|----------|
| `json` | Structured data with bounding boxes, semantic types |
| `markdown` | Clean text for LLM context, RAG chunks |
| `html` | Web display with styling |
| `pdf` | Annotated PDF showing detected structures |
| `text` | Plain text extraction |

You can combine formats: `format="json,markdown"`

### Does OpenDataLoader work with LangChain?

Yes! OpenDataLoader PDF has an official LangChain integration:

```bash
pip install -U langchain-opendataloader-pdf
```

```python
from langchain_opendataloader_pdf import OpenDataLoaderPDFLoader

loader = OpenDataLoaderPDFLoader(
    file_path=["document.pdf"],
    format="text"
)
documents = loader.load()
```

See the [LangChain documentation](https://python.langchain.com/docs/integrations/document_loaders/opendataloader_pdf/) for more details.

## Privacy & Security

### Can I use this without sending data to the cloud?

Yes. OpenDataLoader PDF runs **100% locally** on your machine. No API calls, no data transmission — your documents never leave your environment. This makes it ideal for:
- Legal documents
- Medical records
- Financial reports
- Any sensitive data

### What is AI Safety filtering?

PDFs can contain hidden text designed for prompt injection attacks — invisible instructions that manipulate LLMs. OpenDataLoader automatically filters:
- Hidden text (transparent, zero-size fonts)
- Off-page content
- Suspicious invisible layers

This is **enabled by default**. Learn more in our [AI Safety documentation](/docs/ai-safety).

### Is my data safe?

Yes. OpenDataLoader:
- Runs entirely on your machine
- Makes no network requests
- Stores no data externally
- Is open-source (you can audit the code)

## Performance

### How fast is OpenDataLoader?

OpenDataLoader processes **100+ pages per second** on typical hardware (CPU only, no GPU). See our [benchmark results](/docs/benchmark) for details. Exact speed depends on:
- Document complexity
- Number of tables/images
- Output formats selected

### Can I process multiple PDFs at once?

Yes. Point to a folder instead of a single file:

```python
opendataloader_pdf.convert(
    input_path="documents/",  # Folder containing PDFs
    output_dir="output/",
    format="json,markdown"
)
```

### Does it work with scanned PDFs?

OCR support for scanned PDFs is **coming soon** (scheduled for December 2025). Currently, OpenDataLoader works best with digital PDFs that have embedded text.

## Tagged PDF

### What is Tagged PDF?

Tagged PDF is a document structure that includes semantic information (headings, paragraphs, lists, tables). When a PDF has proper tags, OpenDataLoader can extract the **exact layout** the author intended — no guessing required.

### Why does Tagged PDF matter?

The [European Accessibility Act (EAA)](https://commission.europa.eu/strategy-and-policy/policies/justice-and-fundamental-rights/disability/union-equality-strategy-rights-persons-disabilities-2021-2030/european-accessibility-act_en) took effect on June 28, 2025, requiring accessible digital documents across the EU. This means more PDFs are now properly tagged.

### How do I use Tagged PDF features?

```python
opendataloader_pdf.convert(
    input_path="accessible-document.pdf",
    output_dir="output/",
    use_struct_tree=True  # Use native PDF structure tags
)
```

Most PDF parsers ignore structure tags entirely. OpenDataLoader is one of the few that fully supports them.

## Troubleshooting

### Text from different columns is mixed together

Enable reading order:
```python
reading_order="xycut"
```

### Tables are not detected correctly

Try the cluster detection method for better results with borderless or complex tables:

```python
opendataloader_pdf.convert(
    input_path="document.pdf",
    output_dir="output/",
    table_method="cluster"
)
```

Or via CLI:
```bash
opendataloader-pdf document.pdf -f json --table-method cluster
```

For complex tables, Table AI support is coming soon.

### Headers and footers appear in my output

These should be filtered by default. If they're appearing, they may be part of the main content flow rather than repeated elements.

### Java is not found

Ensure Java 11+ is installed and in your PATH:
```bash
java -version
```

If not installed, download from [Adoptium](https://adoptium.net/) or use your package manager.

## Contributing

### How can I contribute?

We welcome contributions! See our [Contributing Guide](/docs/contributing) for details on:
- Reporting bugs
- Suggesting features
- Submitting pull requests

### Where can I get help?

- [GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/opendataloader-project/opendataloader-pdf/discussions) — Q&A and general conversations
- [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/opendataloader-project/opendataloader-pdf/issues) — Bug reports and feature requests
