apps/v1/content/docs/quick-start-python.mdx, before:

---
title: Quick Start with Python
description: Install and use opendataloader-pdf from Python or its CLI
---

Python is the fastest way to get started. The package bundles bindings, a CLI entrypoint, and AI-safety filters that run locally.

## Requirements

- Python 3.9 or later
- Java 11+ available on the system `PATH`

Verify Java once before installing:

```bash
java -version
```

## Install

```bash
pip install -U opendataloader-pdf
```

Upgrade regularly to pick up model, parser, and safety improvements.

## Convert PDFs from Python

```python
import opendataloader_pdf

opendataloader_pdf.convert(
    input_path=["path/to/document.pdf", "path/to/folder"],
    output_dir="path/to/output",
    format="json,html,pdf,markdown",
)
```

- `input_path` can mix file and directory paths.
- `output_dir` defaults to the input folder when omitted.
- `format` accepts any subset of `json`, `text`, `html`, `pdf`, `markdown`, `markdown-with-html`, `markdown-with-images`.

### CLI usage

Use the same installation to drive conversions from the terminal:

```bash
opendataloader-pdf path/to/document.pdf \
  -o path/to/output \
  -f json,html,pdf,markdown
```

## Function reference

`opendataloader_pdf.convert()` is the primary API.

| Parameter               | Type                              | Required | Default      | Description                                                                                                             |
| ----------------------- | --------------------------------- | -------- | ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `input_path`            | `List[str]`                       | ✅ Yes   | —            | One or more PDF file paths or directories to process.                                                                   |
| `output_dir`            | `Optional[str]`                   | No       | input folder | Directory where outputs are written.                                                                                    |
| `password`              | `Optional[str]`                   | No       | `None`       | Password used for encrypted PDFs.                                                                                       |
| `format`                | `Optional[Union[str, List[str]]]` | No       | `None`       | Comma-separated output formats to generate. (json, text, html, pdf, markdown, markdown-with-html, markdown-with-images) |
| `quiet`                 | `bool`                            | No       | `False`      | Suppresses CLI logging output when `True`.                                                                              |
| `content_safety_off`    | `Optional[Union[str, List[str]]]` | No       | `None`       | Comma-separated content safety filters to disable. (all, hidden-text, off-page, tiny, hidden-ocg)                       |
| `keep_line_breaks`      | `bool`                            | No       | `False`      | Preserves line breaks in text output when `True`.                                                                       |
| `replace_invalid_chars` | `Optional[str]`                   | No       | `None`       | Replacement character for invalid or unrecognized characters (e.g., �, `\u0000`).                                       |
| `use_struct_tree`       | `bool `                           | No       | `False`      | Enable processing structure tree (disabled by default).                                                                 |

## Next steps

- Need schema details for downstream parsing? See the [JSON schema](./json-schema).

Commit message:

Update from https://github.com/opendataloader-project/opendataloader-pdf/commit/4c6110c83075137e06fbbc0a77e8eb87e9f32445

apps/v1/content/docs/quick-start-python.mdx, after:

---
title: Quick Start with Python
description: Install and use opendataloader-pdf from Python or its CLI
---

Python is the fastest way to get started. The package bundles bindings, a CLI entrypoint, and AI-safety filters that run locally.

## Requirements

- Python 3.9 or later
- Java 11+ available on the system `PATH`

Verify Java once before installing:

```bash
java -version
```

## Install

```bash
pip install -U opendataloader-pdf
```

Upgrade regularly to pick up model, parser, and safety improvements.

## Convert PDFs from Python

```python
import opendataloader_pdf

opendataloader_pdf.convert(
    input_path=["path/to/document.pdf", "path/to/folder"],
    output_dir="path/to/output",
    format="json,html,pdf,markdown",
)
```

### `convert()` options

import PythonConvertOptions from './_generated/python-convert-options.mdx';

<PythonConvertOptions />

### CLI usage

Use the same installation to drive conversions from the terminal:

```bash
opendataloader-pdf path/to/document.pdf \
  -o path/to/output \
  -f json,html,pdf,markdown
```

For CLI options, see the [CLI Options Reference](./cli-options-reference).

## Next steps

- Need schema details for downstream parsing? See the [JSON schema](./json-schema).
