apps/v1/content/docs/quick-start-nodejs.mdx, before:

---
title: Quick Start with Node.js
description: Use the @opendataloader/pdf package from TypeScript or JavaScript
---

The TypeScript package mirrors the Python API and exposes both a programmatic helper and a CLI (`npx @opendataloader/pdf`).

## Requirements

- Node.js 18 or later
- Java 11+ available on the system `PATH`

Verify Java once before installing:

```bash
java -version
```

## Install

```bash
npm install @opendataloader/pdf
```

## Convert from TypeScript

```typescript
import { convert } from "@opendataloader/pdf";

async function main() {
  await convert(["path/to/document.pdf", "path/to/folder"], {
    outputDir: "path/to/output",
    format: "json,html,pdf,markdown",
  });
}

main().catch((error) => {
  console.error("Error processing PDF:", error);
});
```

### CLI usage

```bash
npx @opendataloader/pdf path/to/document.pdf path/to/folder \
  -o path/to/output \
  -f json,html,pdf,markdown
```

## `convert()` options

| Property                      | Type                 | Default     | Description                                                                                                             |
| ----------------------------- | -------------------- | ----------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `inputPaths`                  | `string[]`           | —           | One or more file paths or directories to process.                                                                       |
| `options.outputDir`           | `string`             | `undefined` | Directory where outputs are written.                                                                                    |
| `options.password`            | `string`             | `undefined` | Password for encrypted PDFs.                                                                                            |
| `options.format`              | `string \| string[]` | `undefined` | Comma-separated output formats to generate. (json, text, html, pdf, markdown, markdown-with-html, markdown-with-images) |
| `options.quiet`               | `boolean`            | `false`     | Suppress CLI logging output and prevent streaming.                                                                      |
| `options.contentSafetyOff`    | `string \| string[]` | `undefined` | Comma-separated content safety filters to disable. (all, hidden-text, off-page, tiny, hidden-ocg)                       |
| `options.keepLineBreaks`      | `boolean`            | `false`     | Preserve line breaks in text output.                                                                                    |
| `options.replaceInvalidChars` | `string`             | `undefined` | Replacement character for invalid or unrecognized characters.                                                           |
| `options.useStructTree`       | `boolean`            | `false`     | Enable processing structure tree (disabled by default).                                                                 |

## Next steps

- Need schema details for downstream parsing? See the [JSON schema](./json-schema).

Commit message:

Update from https://github.com/opendataloader-project/opendataloader-pdf/commit/4c6110c83075137e06fbbc0a77e8eb87e9f32445

apps/v1/content/docs/quick-start-nodejs.mdx, after:

---
title: Quick Start with Node.js
description: Use the @opendataloader/pdf package from TypeScript or JavaScript
---

The TypeScript package mirrors the Python API and exposes both a programmatic helper and a CLI (`npx @opendataloader/pdf`).

## Requirements

- Node.js 18 or later
- Java 11+ available on the system `PATH`

Verify Java once before installing:

```bash
java -version
```

## Install

```bash
npm install @opendataloader/pdf
```

## Convert from TypeScript

```typescript
import { convert } from "@opendataloader/pdf";

async function main() {
  await convert(["path/to/document.pdf", "path/to/folder"], {
    outputDir: "path/to/output",
    format: "json,html,pdf,markdown",
  });
}

main().catch((error) => {
  console.error("Error processing PDF:", error);
});
```

### `convert()` options

import NodeConvertOptions from './_generated/node-convert-options.mdx';

<NodeConvertOptions />

## CLI usage

```bash
npx @opendataloader/pdf path/to/document.pdf path/to/folder \
  -o path/to/output \
  -f json,html,pdf,markdown
```

For CLI options, see the [CLI Options Reference](./cli-options-reference).

## Next steps

- Need schema details for downstream parsing? See the [JSON schema](./json-schema).
